Introduction
============

Goals
-----
* E-learning system for questions with symbolic answers.

* Effective user interface for students and teachers on **computer**,
  **tablet** or **smartphone**.

* More effective feedback between teacher and student.


Exercises
---------

In a physics class, exercises typically involve some practical problem
to be solved. Often analytically. A typical question from the earliest
part of the mechanics course as presented in OpenTA is given in the
following figure.

.. image:: exercise_example.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-border
     :width: 600px

The difficulty in evaluating a student's answer to this is that there
are many equivalent responses that are correct and acceptable. An
auto correcting system must accept all correct answers.

The form of a correct answer may vary as follows:

.. math::
   :nowrap:

   \begin{eqnarray}
      \sqrt{(F1 + F2 \cdot \cos(\alpha))^2 + (F2 \cdot \sin(\alpha))^2}\\
      \sqrt{F1^2 + F262 + 2 \cdot F1 \cdot F2 \cdot \cos(\alpha)}\\
      \sqrt{(|F2| \sin(\alpha)^2 + (|F1| + |F2| \cos(\alpha))^2}\\
      \sqrt{(F1)^2 + 2 F1 F2 \cos(\alpha) + (F2)^2}
   \end{eqnarray}

This is the challenge which is surprisingly difficult to meet. The
goal is therefore an exercise teaching platform that can properly
evaluate mathematical content in questions, not only the usual
numerical and multiple choice answers that are used as quizzes in many
teaching platform.

The goal is to make the exercises fun and instructive for the
students, and allow them to use the `tools` that they use every day.
I.e. the platform should be adaptable: usable not only on laptops but
should be usable on tablets and smartphones.

.. image:: student_devices_1.png
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 300px


.. image:: student_devices_2.png
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 300px

User interface
--------------

We first take a look at how a student sees the platform in our *Mek1*
course. First a login screen. In fact a launch in `Canvas
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instructure>`_ can also be used.

.. image:: login_screen.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

After logging into OpenTA, folders with assignments are shown. In
this case some icons that indicate which problems are to be solved.
Some icons have embellishments that are discussed below.

The following example comes from the `Chalmers
<https://www.chalmers.se/en/Pages/default.aspx>`_ course in
introductory mechanics.

.. image:: screenshot.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

The student selects a problem and is presented with several
questions to be answered and an answer box in which to type the answer.

.. image:: screenshot_exercise.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

The variables that are permitted in the answer are indicated and the
answer is entered in a natural `AsciiMath syntax
<http://asciimath.org/>`_. The program typesets the input during
input, which is not only useful for checking more complex formulas,
but is also fun since the input looks quite a bit more elegant than
the AsciiMath input form.

.. image:: screenshot_exercise_and_answer.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

The student attempts the answer by pressing the ``Send`` button.

In this case, the answer was not only incorrect but the units were
wrong. OpenTA points out in the response.

.. image:: screenshot_exercise_and_evaluation.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

On the next attempt, the student enters in the correct answer and gets a
correct response back.

.. image:: screenshot_exercise_and_correct.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

The examiner can demand not only that the input answer is correct, but
can indicate that the student should upload their calculations that
led to the answer. In that case a camera icon is shown and either an
image or a PDF file is uploaded by the student to complete the
exercise.

.. image:: screenshot_exercise_and_image.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

A thumbnail of the upload is then shown.

.. image:: screenshot_exercise_and_thumbnail.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

The slides presented above show OpenTA on a laptop screen, but the
smartphone format is sufficiently easy to use that many of the students
use that instead of a laptop. And, the uploads can be done directly
from the smartphone's camera.

.. image:: screenshot_exercise_on_smartphone.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

Progress Tracking
-----------------

The following slide shows what a student’s OpenTA page, from the
Neural Networks course Bernhard Mehlig is teaching, might look like
after a week or two.

We note now the embellishments on the icons. Questions are categorized
as ``Obligatory`` (blue) , ``Bonus`` (orange) or ``Optional`` (no
badge).

.. image:: student_progress.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

Due dates are listed, and green check mark indicates the answer was
correct, and a green or red camera icon indicates an image was
uploaded or missing.

.. image:: student_progress_detailed.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

Teacher View
------------

The teacher sees essentially the same view as the student, but with
some more badges on the exercise icon.

.. image:: teacher_view.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

There are violet activity bars indicating how many student attempts
there are on the particular question, green bar indicating how many
have answered correctly and turned in their image, a blue bar
indicating how many students have answered correctly, and an orange
bar indicating how many students have tried but failed to answer the
question.

The violet activity bar can be set to measure all activity, activity
latest week, day or hour. Thus a teacher can see not only cumulative
student progress but which questions are being worked on at at the
time.

.. image:: teacher_view_2.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

Recently submitted answers can also be read, and not only the latest,
but also all of the attempts made by the student to answer the
question. The teacher can thereby find out common mistakes that
students might be making.

.. image:: teacher_view_3.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

More detail about a particular exercise is available. The time that
submissions were made, typically hitting a peak just before deadline.

.. image:: teacher_view_stats.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

Late submissions are never rejected, they are always just marked late
so the teacher has an option to accept them if they are feeling
generous.

The examiner can also *audit* the student responses. I.e. go through
the student answers and uploads and override the automatic settings
generated by the computer. We typically use this as spot-checks on the
student submissions. In the next slide, a student submission is shown
together with comments to be transmitted to the student.

.. image:: teacher_feedback.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

An exercise is accepted on the basis of a correct answer and a
submitted image unless there is intervention by an audit by TA or
teacher. Several TA’s can share the task of auditing exercises.

The follwing image show what a *grade sheet* for a student. It shows
how a student has performed and the number of questions that have been
completed.

.. image:: grade_sheet.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

A teacher can also examine a student's work by entering OpenTA as that
student. This is useful if an individual is having difficulties with
either the physics or the OpenTA technology.

.. image:: teacher_as_student.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 600px

Technical Information
---------------------

The OpenTA client, i.e. where the screen shots come from, is a
*desktop app* written in `JavaScript
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JavaScript>`_ using `React
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/React_(JavaScript_library)>`_.

The OpenTA server is based on `Django
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Django_(web_framework)>`_, a framework
based on `Python version 3
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_(programming_language)>`_.

All packages are `OpenSource <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source>`_.

`Canvas <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Instructure>`_ and `Moodle
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moodle>`_ can be configured to use
OpenTA as a tool.

.. image:: tech_stack.png
     :align: center
     :class: with-shadow
     :width: 400px

OpenTA is designed as a learning tool, not as an examination tool. We
encourage collaboration and trying answers multiple times.

Thus, we have not limited the number of responses and make no attempts
to *lock down* access to other media. We do find, however that
students work very hard for *Bonus* points and that has turned out to
be an important motivation for the students to take the exercises
seriously.

The opinions from both teachers and students who have used OpenTA has
been overwhelmingly positive.
